              INSTALLING PARADOX ON A BANYAN VINES NETWORK
              --------------------------------------------

This file contains instructions for installing Paradox on a Banyan Vines
or Vines/286 network. These instructions were verified using Banyan Vines
386, version 5.0, on a Dell 486/P computer using MS-DOS 5.0.


TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------

1. Assumptions
2. Requirements
3. Installation Steps


1. ASSUMPTIONS
--------------

These instructions assume the following about your Banyan installation:

- You use Banyan's Vines network allocation and resource software version
  2.10 or higher on a Banyan/DTS server.

- You're authorized to perform administrative tasks on your Banyan network.

- You're familiar with Banyan's network system administration utilities and
  StreetTalk naming conventions.

- You perform all installation and configuration operations from a
  workstation.


2. REQUIREMENTS
---------------

The two disk-related requirements to run Paradox on a Banyan Vines or
Vines/286 network are:

- You must have a minimum of 4MB free disk space in a server volume for the
  Paradox system files.

- Each user must have a private directory located on either a local hard
  disk or a network server file volume.

The additional memory (RAM) requirements for workstations to run Paradox
from a Banyan Vines network are:

- A dedicated IBM Personal Computer AT (or 100% compatible) running a
  Vines/286 network system must have a minimum of 1MB random access memory
  (RAM). Additional RAM above 1MB improves system performance.

- The minimum 5MB RAM provided with the Banyan/DTS server is sufficient to
  run Paradox from the server.

- Workstations require a minimum of 1MB RAM for joint Vines and Paradox
  operation. Banyan's Vines workstation software occupies approximately
  100K of workstation RAM when installed.


3. INSTALLATION STEPS
---------------------

NOTE: This file proposes creating only one Vines file service for all
aspects of Paradox. This prevents a single application from commanding
a disproportionate share of the finite file services on a Banyan network.
However, if your network can devote more than one Vines file service to
different parts of Paradox--for example, one file service for the
Paradox system files and another for Paradox shared data--you can create
those multiple file services. You can then set them to different logical
drives and modify the user profiles for access to Paradox based on those
file services and logical drive assignments.

1)  Add a new Vines file service for Paradox:

    a. Log in to the Banyan server from a network workstation.

    b. When prompted, enter your login name. (Enter either your Banyan
       nickname or your full StreetTalk user name, including your group and
       organization names.)

    c. When prompted, enter your password. If you don't have a password, or
       if this is the first time you've logged in to the first server on a
       network, press [Enter].

    d. After the server displays a report on network resources activated
       during your login, a logical drive designator appears, just like a
       DOS prompt:

       E:\>

       This is the default login drive for the Banyan network system just
       after Banyan system installation. If you've set a different default
       drive in your user profile, it appears instead.

    e. To create the file service for Paradox, invoke the Vines System
       Management menu in either of these ways:

       - Type MANAGE at the DOS prompt and choose SERVICES from the menu.

       or

       - Type MSERVICE at the system prompt.

    f. To add Paradox as a new and separate Vines file service, choose Add
       a Server-Based Service.

    g. The system prompts for the name of the new file service.

       StreetTalk name:

       Enter the StreetTalk name for the Paradox system files file service:

       PDOX45@group name@org name

       where "group name" is the name of the group and "org name" is the
       name of the organization. The PDOX45 item name must be unique in its
       group. If the PDOX45 item name is already in use, you can't add it
       again.

    h. The system prompts for a description of the new service. Enter a
       description of up to 63 characters. This is for administrative
       purposes and doesn't affect user access to Paradox.

    i. When prompted, choose a server. If your network has only one server,
       skip this step.

    j. When prompted, choose the type of service you're adding. To indicate
       a file service, choose Vines File Service.

    k. When prompted, choose the physical disk on which this service will
       reside. If the server has only one disk, press [Enter].

    l. When prompted, start the file service you just added by choosing
       YES when the system asks if you want to start the service
       immediately.

    m. Exit from the System Management menus by pressing [Esc] until you
       reach the DOS prompt.

2)  At the DOS prompt, link the new file service to a logical drive
    designation with the command

    SETDRIVE G PDOX45@group name@org name

    where "group name" and "org name" are the group and organization names
    for the service names. You can specify any logical drives from A through
    Z to point to the Paradox-based file services. Avoid using A through C
    so that workstation users don't lose access to their workstations' disk
    drives. Also, avoid using drive Z so you don't make Banyan's
    administrative utilities linked to drive Z unavailable.

    NOTE: The logical drive letter in the SETDRIVE command doesn't include
    the colon (:) that DOS requires. If you don't create a new file service
    for Paradox, but instead include Paradox in an applications file service,
    don't perform this SETDRIVE command. Instead, make sure the applications
    file service is set to a logical drive.

3)  Create a directory for the Paradox system files:

    Make the Paradox file service logical drive the current drive, change to
    its root directory, and create the PDOX45 directory with the following
    commands:

    G:
    CD \
    MD PDOX45

4)  Set read access rights to PDOX45:

    CD PDOX45
    SETARL

    The SETARL program sets the access rights list for a resource. When the
    program prompts you for the directory name, press [Enter] to indicate the
    current directory (that is, PDOX45). Be sure to specify R for read access
    rights when you edit the access rights list. Consult the chapter on
    "Services" in the "Banyan Administrator's Guide" for more about access
    rights.

5)  Create a directory for shared Paradox data:

    Make the Paradox file service logical drive the current drive, change to
    its root directory, if necessary, and create the PDOXDATA directory with
    the following commands:

    G:
    CD \
    MD PDOXDATA

6)  Set modify access rights to the PDOXDATA directory:

    CD PDOXDATA
    SETARL

    When the SETARL program prompts you for the directory name, press [Enter]
    to indicate the current directory (that is, PDOXDATA). Be sure to specify
    M for modify access rights when you edit the access rights list. Consult
    the chapter on "Services" in the "Banyan Administrator's Guide" for more
    about access rights.

7)  If you want to create a directory for Paradox private directories, make
    the Paradox file service logical drive the current drive, change to its
    root directory, if necessary, and create the PDOXDIRS directory with the
    following commands:

    G:
    CD \
    MD PDOXDIRS

8)  Set modify access rights to the PDOXDIRS directory:

    CD PDOXDIRS
    SETARL

    When the SETARL program prompts you for the directory name, press [Enter]
    to indicate the current directory (that is, PDOXDIRS). Be sure to specify
    M for modify access rights when you edit the access rights list. Consult
    the chapter on "Services" in the "Banyan Administrator's Guide" for more
    about access rights.

    After creating the PDOXDIRS directory, you can change to it and create
    private Paradox directories for network Paradox users who require them.

9)  If you want to include Paradox in another applications file service, exit
    the System Management menus, if you haven't already done so. When the DOS
    prompt appears,

    a. Change to the root directory of the applications file volume. For
       example, if your applications file service and its top-level
       directory are called \APPS, and the service is set to logical drive
       D, type

       D:
       CD \APPS

    b. Create the subdirectory for the Paradox system files. Type

       MD PDOX45


10) Install the Paradox system files and optional software. Follow the
    instructions in NETWORK.TXT (found on your Paradox installation disks).
    The Paradox INSTALL program copies your Paradox system files and optional
    software from the program disks into the system files directory, PDOX45.

11) Establish private directories--either on workstations' local hard disks
    or, for diskless workstations, on the server hard disk.

    If your users have general private directories on the server disk, use
    these private directories for Paradox. You can also create specific
    subdirectories for Paradox in these general private-user directories. For
    example, if users have private directories on a file service named USERS
    set to logical drive U, you can do the following:

    a. Make the USERS drive the current drive. Type

       U:

    b. Change to the user's private directory. Type

       CD\USER-DIRNAME

    c. Create a Paradox private directory. Type

       MD PDOXDIRS

       Be sure to specify this private directory in each user's PARADOX.CFG
       file and to include it in the user's search path.

       If you don't routinely provide private directories on the file server
       for your workstation users, you should create a directory for
       Paradox private directories on the PDOX45 file service and name
       this directory PDOXDIRS. After creating the PDOXDIRS directory, you
       can create a private subdirectory for each workstation user in the
       network. Include these Paradox private directories in each user's
       search path.

12) Create or modify the CONFIG.SYS file of each workstation to set the
    number of buffers and files needed by Paradox:

    FILES=40
    BUFFERS=40

    A workstation's CONFIG.SYS file must be stored in the root directory of
    the workstation's hard disk (or on the boot disk if the workstation is
    started from a floppy disk). See NETWORK.TXT for details on CONFIG.SYS.

    NOTE: After editing the CONFIG.SYS file, you must reboot the workstation
    before you can run Paradox. To reboot, press [Ctrl][Alt][Del].

13) Set logical drives and paths in Banyan user profiles.

    You can set the logical drives and search paths for each workstation
    using different methods. While network users can individually set logical
    drives for network file volumes and define search paths manually from
    their keyboards, this isn't recommended. A mistake could cause serious
    problems for network Paradox users. You should set the correct logical
    drives and establish the correct search paths for each user instead.

    The most efficient and secure method for doing this is with Banyan "user
    profiles." A user profile contains commands that are executed when the
    user logs in to the Banyan network. A user profile is similar to, but
    distinct from, an AUTOEXEC.BAT file on a workstation. It contains
    commands that are executed when the workstation is booted.

    The steps for creating and editing user profiles are explained in the
    "Administrator's Guide" for the Banyan Vines virtual networking system.
    Your primary tasks are to

    - set the appropriate file service(s) to logical drives under the :FILES:
      heading

    - establish the appropriate search paths under the :DOS: heading

    To modify user profiles for Paradox, perform the following steps:

    a. Type MANAGE and choose Users or type MUSER at the DOS prompt.

    b. Choose Select, then choose the user whose profile you want to modify.

    c. Choose Edit to edit the user profile. To edit a profile, move the
       cursor to the point where you want to add, delete, or modify
       information.

       - If you've created a separate file service for the Paradox system
         files, add the following command under the :FILES: heading of each
         user profile:

         SETDRIVE G "PDOX45@group name@org name"

         where "group name" and "org name" are the group and organization
         names of the file services you established for Paradox. You can
         specify any logical drive letter as described previously. These
         commands should be the same commands you executed prior to
         installing Paradox on the server.

       - To establish the appropriate search paths, add one of the
         following commands under the :DOS: heading of each user profile:

         PATH = C:\PDOX45;G:\
         PATH = U:\user-dirname\PDOXDIRS;G:\
         PATH = G:\PDOXDIRS\user-dirname;G:\

         Use the first line for network users whose workstations have local
         hard disks and for whom C:\PDOX45 is the private directory.

         Use the second line for network users whose workstations are either
         diskless or have only floppy drives and who also have a private
         directory on the server. U: can be any logical drive created as a
         private directory for a network user, "\user-dirname" is the user's
         private directory name, and "\PDOXDIRS" is the name for the
         explicit Paradox private directory.

         Use the third line for users with diskless or floppy-only
         workstations who don't have general private-server directories.

       - If instead you've added Paradox to a general applications file
         service called APPS set to logical drive D, add the following
         command under the :FILES: heading of each user profile:

         SETDRIVE D "apps@group name@org name"

       - To establish the appropriate search paths, add one of the
         following commands under the :DOS: heading of each user profile:

         PATH = C:\PDOX45;D:\APPS\PDOX45;+
         PATH = U:\user-dirname\PDOXDIRS;D:\APPS\PDOX45;+
         PATH = D:\APPS\PDOXDIRS\user-dirname;D:\APPS\PDOX45;

         Use the first line for network users whose workstations have local
         hard disks and for whom C:\PDOX45 is the private directory.

         Use the second line for network users whose workstations are either
         diskless or have only floppy drives and who also have a private
         directory on the server. U: can be any logical drive created as a
         private directory for a network user, "\user-dirname" is the user's
         private directory name, and "\PDOXDIRS" is the name for the
         explicit Paradox private directory.

         Use the third line for users with diskless or floppy-only
         workstations who don't have general private-server directories.

    d. After you finish editing the user profiles, exit the System
       Management utilities.

       After the appropriate SETDRIVE and PATH commands are included in
       each user profile, network users can log in to the Banyan Vines or
       Vines/286 network and start using Paradox by typing

       PARADOX

       at the DOS prompt.

14) Create PARADOX.CFG files. See NETWORK.TXT for details.

