          INSTALLING PARADOX ON A MICROSOFT LAN MANAGER NETWORK
          -----------------------------------------------------

This file contains instructions for installing Paradox on Microsoft's Local
Area Network Manager (LAN Manager), version 2.2. These instructions
were verified using MS LAN Manager 2.2 on a Dell 486P/33 computer using
MSDOS 5.0. As of July 1993, NETWKSTA.500 DOS workstation redirector patch
(available from Microsoft) was required. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------

1. Assumptions
2. Installation Steps
3. Linking Users and Setting User Paths


1. ASSUMPTIONS
--------------

These instructions assume the following about your MS LAN Manager
installation:

- You use Microsoft LAN Manager version 2.0 or higher.

- You're familiar with Microsoft LAN Manager commands.

- Your network has a shared applications directory named \\SERVER\APPS, where
  "SERVER" is the server name.

- The APPS directory is linked to each user's logical drive E.

- You can log in to your network as a user with administrative privileges.

- Your system is in user security mode (not share security). If your system
  is in share security mode, your installation will differ slightly from
  these instructions. Follow your network documentation instructions.

- You perform all configuration operations from the server but then install
  Paradox from a workstation.


2. INSTALLATION STEPS
---------------------

1)  Run NET ADMIN from the server to open the LAN Manager administrator
    window.

2)  From the LAN Manager administrator window, determine what security mode
    you're running in by selecting Config from the menu (press [Alt][C]).
    Choose Server options (press [R]). If user security is checked, that's
    the mode you're in. If it isn't checked, you're running in share
    security mode.

    Installation differs depending on the security mode. For user security
    mode, follow these instructions:

    a. Choose View|Shared resources to open the Shared Resources at
       \\SERVER dialog box, where "SERVER" is the name of your server.

    b. Choose the Add share button.

    c. When you see a list, choose the Disk directory radio button and
       choose OK to confirm. You see the Share a Directory with the Network
       dialog box.

    d. Type PDOX45 in the Sharename text box.

    e. Assuming that your applications are installed on drive C, type

       C:\APPS\PDOX45

       in the Path text box. (If you're not installing to drive C,
       substitute the correct drive letter for C.)

    f. Choose OK to confirm your settings.

    g. Choose OK again when LAN Manager asks if you want to create the
       directory.

    h. LAN Manager opens the Select a File for Access Permissions dialog
       box. With <current directory> selected, press [Enter].

    i. You see the Access Permissions for \\SERVER\PDOX45 dialog box, where
       "SERVER" is your server name. Choose the R:Read and X:Execute
       permissions.

    j. Move to the Not permitted list and highlight the *USERS group. Choose
       Permit (or press [Alt][P]) to transfer the *USERS group to the
       Permitted list. You should see *USERS (RX) in the Permitted list.
       Repeat this step for additional groups or users needing access to
       Paradox.

       NOTE: A user with Admin privileges has all permissions. You
       therefore don't need to move the Admins group (*ADMINS) explicitly
       to the Permitted list.

    k. Choose OK to confirm your settings.

    l. LAN Manager returns to the Select a File for Access Permissions
       dialog box. Choose Done.

    m. LAN Manager returns to the Shared Resources at \\SERVER dialog box,
       where "SERVER" is your server name. Choose Add share to add another
       sharename.

    n. Choose Disk directory.

    o. Choose OK to confirm.

    p. You see the Share a Directory With the Network dialog box. In the
       Sharename text box, type

       PDOXDATA

    q. In the Path text box, type

       C:\PDOXDATA

       If you're not installing to drive C, substitute the correct drive
       letter for C.

       NOTE: If you have more than one server, or if your server has more
       than one hard disk, your choice of which server disk drive to use
       for the PDOXDATA directory should depend on how heavily Paradox
       will be used. Estimate the probable growth of your shared data and
       pick a drive with enough available storage space.

       As your network users become familiar with Paradox, they will
       probably create new Paradox tables and applications. When in doubt,
       overestimate the amount of space you'll need.

    r. You can assign a password in the Password text box, but this isn't
       recommended. If you assign a password, each user will have to enter
       that password every time they try to access any shared data in this
       directory.

    s. Choose OK to confirm your settings.

    t. Choose OK to confirm that LAN Manager should create the directory.

    u. LAN Manager opens the Select a File for Access Permissions dialog
       box. (A single dot in the text box indicates you'll be setting access
       rights for all files in the current directory.) With <current
       directory> selected in the pick list, press [Enter].

    v. LAN Manager opens the Access Permissions dialog box. Choose
       read/write/create/delete rights by choosing RWCDA (or by pressing
       [Alt][S]).

    w. Move to the Not permitted list box and highlight the *USERS group.
       Choose Permit (or press [Alt][P]). *USERS (RWCDA) appears in the
       Permitted list. Repeat this step for additional groups or users
       needing access to the PDOXDATA directory.

       NOTE: A user with Admin privileges has all permissions. You
       therefore don't need to move the Admins group (*ADMINS) explicitly
       to the Permitted list.

    x. Choose OK to confirm your settings.

    y. LAN Manager returns to the Select a File for Access Permissions
       dialog box. Choose Done.

    z. LAN Manager returns to the Shared Resources at \\SERVER dialog box,
       where "SERVER" is your server name. Choose Done.

    aa. Exit from the LAN Manager by choosing View|Exit.

3)  Establish drive assignments for the PDOX45 and PDOXDATA sharenames on
    a workstation.

4)  Install the Paradox system files and optional software from the
    workstation where you established drive assignments for the PDOX45 and
    PDOXDATA sharenames. Follow the instructions in NETWORK.TXT (found on
    your Paradox installation disks). The Paradox INSTALL program copies your
    Paradox system files and optional software from the program disks into
    the Paradox system files directory, PDOX45.

    When you finish installing the Paradox software, return to this file to
    learn how to make Paradox available to your users.

5)  Create or modify the CONFIG.SYS file of each workstation to set the
    number of buffers and files needed by Paradox:

    FILES=40
    BUFFERS=40

    A workstation's CONFIG.SYS file must be stored in the root directory of
    the workstation's hard disk (or on the boot disk if the workstation is
    started from a floppy disk). See NETWORK.TXT for details on CONFIG.SYS.

    NOTE: After editing the CONFIG.SYS file, you must reboot the workstation
    before you can run Paradox. To reboot, press [Ctrl][Alt][Del].

6)  Modify the [WORKSTATION] setting in the LANMAN.INI for each workstation
    to set the number of resources required by Paradox:

    NUMRESOURCES = 200

7)  Modify the [NETBEUI_XIF] section in the PROTOCOL.INI for each 
    workstation:

    NCBS = 85
    SESSIONS = 40

8)  Establish a private directory for each user. The private directory must
    be either a network home directory or a private directory on a local hard
    disk. Use NET USE to link a user's private directory to his or her
    network home directory.

    For information on establishing a private directory, see "Linking Users
    and Setting User Paths" later in this file.

    For information about private directories, see NETWORK.TXT.

9)  Use NET USE to link each user to the Paradox system files directory,
    PDOX45. For information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths"
    later in this file.

10) Use NET USE to link each user to the directory containing PDOXUSRS.NET,
    PDOXDATA. For information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths"
    later in this file.

11) Change each Paradox user's path to search for the user's private
    directory and the Paradox system files directory, IN THAT ORDER. For
    information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later in this
    file.

    The user's private directory must precede all other Paradox-related
    directories in the path, since Paradox searches for PARADOX.CFG in the
    private directory to determine the user's private directory and other
    default settings. See NETWORK.TXT for details about the PARADOX.CFG file.

12) Create PARADOX.CFG files. See NETWORK.TXT for details.


3. LINKING USERS AND SETTING USER PATHS
---------------------------------------

You can establish the necessary links and paths for each workstation (steps
6, 7, 8, and 9) in different ways. In theory, network users can enter them
manually from their keyboards when they want to use Paradox, but this isn't
recommended, because a mistake can cause problems for network Paradox users.
You should automatically create the correct links and path for each user
instead.

Use a login batch file that automatically sets up every user to run Paradox
when he or she logs in to the network. Use this method for networks where
Paradox is used frequently.

On LAN Manager, each user has an individual batch file (or series of batch
files) that logs the user in to the network. The login batch file method uses
these batch files to establish the links and paths for Paradox use.

The structure of your login batch commands depends on the network
configuration. For example, on a network using the three-drive pattern of
drive assignments, include the following lines in a login batch file after
the line in the batch sequence that logs the user in to LAN Manager:

NET USE E: \\SERVER\APPS\PDOX45
NET USE H: \\SERVER\USERDIRS
NET USE F: \\SERVER\PDOXDATA
PATH=C:\PDOX45;H:\USERDIRS;E:\APPS\PDOX45

where "USERDIRS" is the sharename for the location of the user's network home
directory.

