                 INSTALLING PARADOX ON A NOVELL NETWORK
                 --------------------------------------

This file contains instructions for installing Paradox on a Novell network.
These instructions were verified using Netware 386, version 3.11 and 
version 4.0, on a Dell 486P/33 using MSDOS 5.0.


TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------

1. Assumptions
2. Installation Steps
3. Linking Users and Setting User Paths
4. Novell Flag Commands
5. Locally Installed Copies of Paradox


1. ASSUMPTIONS
--------------

These instructions assume the following about your Novell installation:

- You use Novell Advanced NetWare version 2.0A or higher.

- Every network user has a home directory.

- You're familiar with the Novell Filer and Syscon utilities and the
  Novell commands MAP and SEARCH.

- Your network has a shared applications directory named \APPS.

- You perform all installation and configuration operations from a
  workstation.


2. INSTALLATION STEPS
---------------------

1)  Log in as network supervisor. Type

    LOGIN SUPERVISOR

2)  If prompted to do so, type in the supervisor's password.

3)  To start the Filer utility, type

    FILER

    The Filer Main menu appears.

4)  Set the current directory to the server's shared applications
    directory:

    a. Choose Select Current Directory from the menu. You see the Current
       Directory dialog box, which shows the current Novell server and
       volume name, followed by a colon and the name of the current
       directory.

    b. If nothing appears to the right of the colon, the root directory is
       the current directory. Type the name of the shared applications
       directory, APPS.

    c. If a directory name (or names) is to the right of the colon, use
       [Backspace] to erase them so just the colon remains. Enter the name
       of the shared applications directory.

       At the top of your screen you should now see the new current
       directory, ServerName\VolumeName:APPS, and be back at the Filer Main
       menu.

5)  Create the Paradox system files directory.

    a. Choose Directory Contents from the Filer Main menu. A Directory
       Contents box displaying the existing subdirectories appears.

    b. Press [Ins]. The New Subdirectory Name dialog box appears.

    c. Fill in the name of the subdirectory that will contain the Paradox
       system software, PDOX45. The subdirectory name appears in the box.

    d. Press [Esc] to return to the Filer Main menu.

6)  Set the current directory to the new PDOX45 subdirectory.

    a. Choose Select Current Directory. The Current Directory dialog box
       appears.

    b. Add the name of the subdirectory you just created. The directory
       should now read ServerName\VolumeName:APPS\PDOX45.

7)  Edit the Inherit Rights Mask of the new PDOX45 directory. Choose Current
    Directory Information and choose Maximum Rights Mask. Delete all rights
    except:

    - File Scan (F)
    - Read from File (R)
    - Open Files (O)

    Open Files (O) is needed for Netware 286 servers.

    NOTE: The network supervisor always has all rights to all directories,
    regardless of how the maximum rights mask is set. For information on
    how to edit the maximum rights mask, consult your Novell documentation.

8)  Designate the trustees (users) who will be allowed to use Paradox on
    the network. To use Paradox on the network, a user must be listed as a
    trustee of the PDOX45 directory.

    a. Choose Current Directory Information and then choose Trustees.

    b. If you want Paradox to be available to everyone on your network,
       assign the trustee group Everyone to the PDOX45 directory.

    c. If you want to limit access to Paradox, you must individually
       designate which trustees have access. You can do this on a user-by-
       user basis or by using the Syscon menu to create a trustee group (or
       groups) and then designating the group as a trustee for the PDOX45
       directory.

       For descriptions of how to use the Filer utility to assign trustees
       or the Syscon utility to create groups, consult your Novell
       documentation.

9)  Create the Paradox shared data directory.

    a. Choose Select Current Directory from the Filer Main menu. The
       Current Directory dialog box appears, showing the current Novell
       server and volume name followed by a colon and the name of the
       current directory, ServerName\VolumeName:APPS\PDOX45.

    b. If nothing appears to the right of the colon, the root directory is
       already the current directory. Press [Enter] to return to the Filer
       Main menu.

    c. If a directory name (or names) appears to the right of the colon, use
       [Backspace] to erase them and press [Enter] to return to the Filer
       Main menu.

       At the top of your screen you should now see ServerName\VolumeName:.

    d. Choose Directory Contents from the Filer Main menu. A box appears at
       the left of your screen, displaying the existing subdirectories.

    e. Press [Ins]. The New Subdirectory Name dialog box appears.

    f. Fill in the name of the directory that will contain shared Paradox
       data, PDOXDATA. The subdirectory name appears in the box.

    g. Press [Esc] to return to the Filer Main menu.

10) Set the current directory to the new PDOXDATA directory.

    a. Choose Select Current Directory from the menu.

    b. You see the Current Directory dialog box, which shows the current
       Novell server and volume name followed by a colon. Type

       PDOXDATA

11) Optionally, if you want to delete parental rights, edit the maximum
    rights mask of the new PDOXDATA directory. For information on how to edit
    the maximum rights mask, consult your Novell documentation.

12) Designate the trustees who will be allowed to access the tables stored in
    the PDOXDATA directory.

    a. If you want everyone on your network to be able to access these
       tables, assign the trustee group Everyone to the PDOXDATA directory.

    b. If you want to limit access, you must individually designate which
       trustees have access. You can do this on a user-by-user basis or by
       using the Syscon menu to create a trustee group (or groups) and
       then designating the group as a trustee for the PDOXDATA directory.

       For descriptions of how to use the Filer utility to assign trustees
       or the Syscon utility to create groups, consult your Novell
       documentation.

13) Install the Paradox system files and optional software. Follow the
    instructions in NETWORK.TXT (found on your Paradox installation disks).
    The Paradox INSTALL program copies your Paradox system files and optional
    software from the program disks into the system files directory, PDOX45.

14) Create or modify the CONFIG.SYS file of each workstation to set the
    number of buffers and files needed by Paradox:

    FILES=40
    BUFFERS=40

    A workstation's CONFIG.SYS file must be stored in the root directory of
    the workstation's hard disk (or on the boot disk if the workstation is
    started from a floppy disk). See NETWORK.TXT for details on CONFIG.SYS.

    NOTE: After editing the CONFIG.SYS file, you must reboot the workstation
    before you can run Paradox. To reboot, press [Ctrl][Alt][Del].

15) Link each user to a private directory. The private directory must be
    either a network home directory or a private directory on a local hard
    disk. For information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later
    in this file.

    See NETWORK.TXT for more information about private directories.

    Normally, each user on a Novell network has a home directory (and
    associated subdirectories), which can be used for Paradox tables. In most
    cases, a single user has trustee rights to a particular home directory.
    Only that user can use Paradox tables stored in his or her home directory.

    Other directories on the network grant trustee rights to more than one
    person. Paradox tables stored in these multiuser directories can be
    accessed by everyone who has trustee rights to them. These are called
    shared directories.

16) Link each user to the Paradox system files directory, PDOX45. For
    information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later in this
    file.

17) Link each user to the directory containing PDOXUSRS.NET, PDOXDATA. For
    information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later in this
    file.

18) Change each Paradox user's path to search for the user's private
    directory and the Paradox system files directory, IN THAT ORDER. The
    user's private directory must precede all other Paradox-related
    directories in the path, since Paradox searches for PARADOX.CFG in the
    private directory to determine the user's private directory and other
    default settings.

    For information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later in this
    file.

    See NETWORK.TXT for details about the PARADOX.CFG file.

    The Novell operating system forbids using the SEARCH path to search a
    local hard disk directory before a network directory. Since using local
    hard disk directories as private directories isn't recommended, you
    should either

    - Make sure no PARADOX.CFG files are in any of the network directories
      listed in a user's search path and then search the local private
      directory immediately after the last network directory. If you used a
      default PARADOX.CFG file in the PDOX45 directory as NETWORK.TXT
      explains, you will have to delete that file before users begin
      running Paradox.

    - Use the DOS PATH command rather than the Novell MAP and SEARCH commands
      to set up each user's search path. You must use this method if Paradox
      system files will be downloaded to a local hard disk as NETWORK.TXT
      describes.

19) Create PARADOX.CFG files. See NETWORK.TXT for details.


3. LINKING USERS AND SETTING USER PATHS
---------------------------------------

You can establish the necessary links and paths for each workstation (steps
15, 16, 17, and 18) in different ways. In theory, network users can enter
them manually from their keyboards when they want to use Paradox, but this
isn't recommended, because a mistake can cause problems for network Paradox
users. You should set up a system that automatically establishes the proper
Novell SEARCH path or DOS path for each user instead. You can use two methods:

- A login batch file that automatically sets up every user to run Paradox
  when logging in to the network. Use this method for networks where Paradox
  is used frequently.

- A Paradox batch file that sets up the correct links and path when a user
  starts Paradox. Use this method for networks where Paradox is used
  infrequently.

To use a login batch file
-------------------------
Include the necessary MAP and SEARCH commands in each user's login script,
which is read when that person logs in to the Novell network. You can use
this method in the following circumstances:

- The user's private directory is either on the local hard disk (for example,
  C:\PDOX45) or on the user's network home directory (if there is no local
  hard disk), and the user's PARADOX.CFG file is stored in the private
  directory.

- No default PARADOX.CFG file is present in the PDOX45 directory on the file
  server.

- The workstation has a local hard disk and therefore has a DOS path that
  includes the Paradox private directory, C:\PDOX45.

- Each user always has the directory containing the network control file
  PDOXUSRS.NET, PDOXDATA, mapped to the same logical drive.

NOTE: If everyone on your network will be making frequent use of Paradox, you
might want to include the login commands in the system login script rather
than in individual login scripts.

To add MAP and SEARCH commands to an individual login script:

1)  Start the Syscon utility. Type

    SYSCON

    You see the Syscon menu.

2)  Choose User Information. The list of users appears.

3)  Highlight the user for whom you're creating (or modifying) the individual
    login script. Press [Enter]. The User Information menu appears.

4)  Choose Login Script. The existing login script for the user appears.

5)  Add the required MAP commands. The system login script must contain a MAP
    command for the directory containing the Paradox system software files
    (APPS\PDOX45) and the directory containing the PDOXUSRS.NET file
    (PDOXDATA). This assumes your network already maps each user's home
    directory to drive F.

    MAP G:=ServerName\VolumeName:APPS\PDOX45
    MAP S:=ServerName\VolumeName:PDOXDATA
    MAP F:=ServerName\VolumeName:UserHomeDir

    In this example, F, G, and S are drives that haven't been used in any
    other MAP statements. "UserHomeDir" is the user's network home directory.
    The drive letter you specify for the directory containing the
    PDOXUSRS.NET file (PDOXDATA) must match what you entered for its location
    during installation.

6)  Add SEARCH commands to the login script for the workstation's private
    directory. If the workstation has no local hard disk, enter the SEARCH
    command for the user's network home directory, which is the directory
    containing the user's PARADOX.CFG file:

    MAP SEARCH1:=F:

7)  Now enter the SEARCH command for the APPS\PDOX45 directory:

    MAP SEARCH2:=ServerName\VolumeName:APPS\PDOX45

    The search number for this directory must be greater than the search
    number for the private directory.

    When you're finished, the Paradox-related portions of your individual
    login script might look something like this:

    MAP G:=ServerName VolumeName:APPS\PDOX45
    MAP S:=ServerName VolumeName:PDOXDATA
    MAP F:=ServerName VolumeName:UserHomeDir
    MAP SEARCH1:=F:
    MAP SEARCH2:=G:

    Novell will automatically append the directories mentioned in the
    workstation's DOS path to the network search path.

To use a Paradox batch file
---------------------------
Give the batch file an appropriate name, such as PDOX.BAT, and store it in
the shared applications directory. This batch file assumes that the user's
network home directory is already mapped to logical drive F.

MAP S:=ServerName\VolumeName:PDOXDATA
MAP K:=ServerName\VolumeName:APPS\PDOX45
MAP INSERT SEARCH1:=F:
MAP INSERT SEARCH2:=K:
PARADOX
MAP DEL S:
MAP DEL K:
MAP DEL S2:
MAP DEL S1:

Here are descriptions of the individual lines:

- The first line maps the PDOXDATA directory to logical drive S. This assumes
  this directory contains the PDOXUSRS.NET file and that S:\ is what you
  specified as the location of this file when you installed Paradox.

- The second line maps the PDOX45 directory to a logical drive K. If some
  other directory is already mapped to a drive you pick, the new MAP command
  will replace the old one, and you won't be able to restore the old mapping
  automatically when the user leaves Paradox.

- The third line inserts a SEARCH1 command for the user's network home
  directory. If the user already has a SEARCH1 command, the old SEARCH1
  automatically becomes SEARCH2 because of the word "insert" in the command
  line. Without the word "insert," the old SEARCH1 would be overwritten.

  In most cases, the user's PARADOX.CFG file will designate the local hard
  disk directory (C:\PDOX45) as the user's private directory. However, if
  someone works at a workstation without a local hard disk, this file should
  designate the user's network home directory as the user's private
  directory.

- The fourth line inserts a SEARCH command for the PDOX45 directory, which is
  mapped to logical drive K (or whatever drive letter you selected on line 2).

- The fifth line starts and runs Paradox.

- The sixth and seventh lines are invoked when the user exits Paradox; they
  delete the mapping for the PDOXDATA and the PDOX45 directories,
  respectively, and make drives S and K available for other uses.

- The eighth and ninth lines remove the two SEARCH commands. In this way,
  the user's MAP and SEARCH commands are left just as they were prior to
  running the batch file. We delete s2 before s1 because, when a search is
  deleted, the next lower SEARCH command automatically moves up to replace
  it.


4. NOVELL FLAG COMMANDS
-----------------------

Do NOT use the Novell FLAG command to change the status of any Paradox
software or data file. You don't need to use the Novell FLAG command to
enable a Paradox table to be shared by multiple users. This is done from
within Paradox.


5. LOCALLY INSTALLED COPIES OF PARADOX
--------------------------------------

If a workstation has a locally installed copy of Paradox that has been
properly installed to access data from the network, you can run that copy of
Paradox in either standalone or network mode. However, if you load the
network software, you must log in to the network before starting Paradox.
This is because Paradox senses the presence of network software and looks for
PDOXUSRS.NET. If you haven't logged in, Paradox will be unable to find
PDOXUSRS.NET because you don't have any logical drive assignments.


