                  INSTALLING PARADOX ON A 3COM NETWORK
                  ------------------------------------

This file contains instructions for installing Paradox on 3Com's 3+ or
3+Share networks. These instructions were verified using 3Com 3PLUS 1.6
on an IBM PS/2 Model 60 computer using Compaq-DOS 3.31.


TABLE OF CONTENTS
-----------------

1.  Assumptions
2.  Installation Steps
3.  Linking Users and Setting User Paths


1. ASSUMPTIONS
--------------

These instructions assume the following about your 3Com installation:

- You use 3Com 3+ version 1.1 or higher or 3+Share version 1.0 or higher.

- You're familiar with the 3F commands SHARE and LINK NET for 3+ or the
  command for 3+Share.

- The server name is \\SYS.

- A directory APPS exists under the root directory.

- The sharename APPSADMN has read/write/create rights to the \\SYS\APPS
  directory, and you're authorized to use this sharename.

- The files LOGIN.EXE and 3F.EXE are stored on each workstation's local
  hard drive and are in each workstation's DOS PATH statement.

- You perform all installation and configuration operations from a
  workstation.


2. INSTALLATION STEPS
---------------------

1)  Create a sharename, PDOX45, that gives all users read-only rights to a
    subdirectory of \\SYS\APPS called PDOX45. The \\SYS\APPS\PDOX45
    directory will contain the Paradox system files. By creating the
    sharename, you automatically create the subdirectory.

    a. From a workstation with one or more floppy drives, log in as the
       network server user and link a logical drive, such as F, to the
       \\SYS\APPS directory. To log in to the network from your local C
       drive, type

       LOGIN UserName

       at the C> system prompt.

    b. If a password is assigned to the UserName, enter the password
       when prompted.

    c. Link a logical drive to the root directory on the server. Type

       3F LINK F:

    d. Display the 3F prompt by typing

       3F

    e. Create the sharename. Display the Share form by typing

       SHARE ?

       then fill it in:

       Sharename?  PDOX45
       Path?  F:\APPS\PDOX45

       In this case, F: is a currently mapped logical drive.

       NOTE: You shouldn't assign a password to this directory; users
       would have to enter the password every time they wanted to
       use Paradox.

       Password? (leave blank)
       Access  /R

       The message "\\sys:domainname:orgname\pdox45 shared" displays,
       where domainname:orgname is the name of your domain and organization.

2)  Create a sharename, PDOXADMN, for the PDOX45 system files directory for
    the network administrator that gives read/write/create rights. Type

    SHARE ?

    Specify the following:

    Sharename? PDOXADMN
    Path?  F:\APPS\PDOX45

    NOTE: Protect PDOXADMN with a password so that unauthorized users can't
    erase or modify the Paradox system files in the PDOX45 directory. Write
    down this password and keep it in a safe place for future reference.

    Password?  Password
    Access  /RWC

    The message "\\sys:domainname:orgname\pdoxadmn shared" displays,
    where domainname:orgname is the name of your domain and organization.

3)  Create a sharename that gives all users read/write/create rights to a
    first-level directory, PDOXDATA. The \\SYS\PDOXDATA directory will
    contain shared Paradox data files and the network control file
    PDOXUSRS.NET. By creating the sharename, you automatically create the
    directory.

    If you have more than one server, or if your server has more than one
    hard disk, your choice of which server disk drive to use for the
    PDOXDATA directory should depend on how heavily Paradox will be used.
    Estimate the probable growth of your shared data and pick a drive with
    enough available storage space.

    As network users become familiar with Paradox, they'll probably create
    new Paradox tables and applications. When in doubt, overestimate the
    amount of space you'll need.

    NOTE: If your network already has a shared data directory and an
    associated sharename, you can use them for shared Paradox tables;
    however, this isn't recommended, because mixing Paradox data with
    other application data in the same directory makes network
    housekeeping more difficult. If you do decide to put Paradox data in an
    existing shared data directory with other applications' shared data, skip
    this step.

    To set up the PDOXDATA sharename and directory, type

    SHARE ?

    Specify the following:

    Sharename?  PDOXDATA
    Path?  F:\PDOXDATA

    NOTE: Don't assign a password to this directory, because users would
    have to enter the password every time they wanted to access any shared
    data stored in PDOXDATA. You can password-protect individual tables
    and applications in this directory; see "Protect" in Chapter 17 of the
    Paradox "User's Guide."

    Password?  (leave blank)
    Access  /RWC

    The message "\\sys:domainname:orgname\pdoxdata shared" displays,
    where domainname:orgname is the name of your domain and organization.

4)  Link logical drives, such as F and G, to PDOXADMN and PDOXDATA.
    For example, to link the logical drive F to the PDOXDATA directory, type

    3F LINK F: PDOXDATA

    To link the logical drive G to the PDOX45 directory, type

    3F LINK G: PDOXADMN

    Because you're using the PDOXADMN sharename, you have read/write/create
    rights.

5)  Exit the 3F utility by pressing [Enter].

6)  Install the Paradox system files and optional software. Follow the
    instructions in NETWORK.TXT (found on your Paradox installation disks).
    The Paradox INSTALL program copies your Paradox system files and optional
    software from the program disks into the system files directory, PDOX45.

7)  Create or modify the CONFIG.SYS file of each workstation to set the
    number of buffers and files needed by Paradox:

    FILES=40
    BUFFERS=40

    A workstation's CONFIG.SYS file must be stored in the root directory of
    the workstation's hard disk (or on the boot disk if the workstation is
    started from a floppy disk). See NETWORK.TXT for details on CONFIG.SYS.

    NOTE: After editing the CONFIG.SYS file, you must reboot the workstation
    before you can run Paradox. To reboot, press [Ctrl][Alt][Del].

8)  Link each user to a private directory. The private directory must be
    either a network home directory or a private directory on a local hard
    disk. For information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths"
    later in this file. For information about private directories, see
    NETWORK.TXT.

9)  Link each user to the Paradox system files directory, PDOX45. For
    information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later in this
    file.

10) Link each user to the directory containing PDOXUSRS.NET, PDOXDATA. For
    information, see "Linking Users and Setting User Paths" later in this
    file.

11) Change each Paradox user's path to search for the user's private
    directory and the Paradox system files directory, IN THAT ORDER. The
    user's private directory must precede all other Paradox-related
    directories in the path, since Paradox searches for PARADOX.CFG in the
    private directory to determine the user's private directory and other
    default settings. For information, see "Linking Users and Setting
    User Paths" later in this file. For information about the PARADOX.CFG
    file, see NETWORK.TXT.

12) Create PARADOX.CFG files. See NETWORK.TXT for details.


3. LINKING USERS AND SETTING USER PATHS
---------------------------------------

You can establish the links and paths for each workstation (steps 8, 9, 10,
and 11) in different ways. In theory, network users can enter them manually
from their keyboards when they want to use Paradox, but this isn't
recommended, because a mistake can cause problems for network Paradox users.
You should automatically create the correct links and path for each user
instead. You can use two methods:

- A login batch file that automatically sets up every user to run Paradox
  when he or she logs in to the network. Use this method for networks where
  Paradox is used frequently.

- A Paradox batch file that sets up the correct links and path when a user
  starts Paradox. Use this method for networks where Paradox is used
  infrequently.

To use a login batch file
-------------------------
On most 3Com networks, each user has an individual batch file (or series of
batch files) that logs the user on to the network. The login batch file
method uses these batch files to establish the links and paths for Paradox
use.

The structure of your login batch commands depends on your network. For
example, on a network using the three-drive pattern of drive assignments,
include the following lines in a login batch file after the line in the
batch sequence that logs the user in to 3Com 3+ and prior to any command
that loads the 3+ Menus:

3F LINK D: PDOX45
3F LINK F: PDOXDATA
PATH = C:\PDOX45; D:\

To use a Paradox batch file
---------------------------
Instead of linking to the Paradox directories in a user's login batch file
and including the Paradox directories in each user's path, you can create a
special Paradox batch file that establishes the links and sets the path each
time Paradox is started.

Store this batch file in a directory already on everyone's search path, such
as the shared applications directory. Since everyone who uses Paradox will
run the same Paradox batch file, write the path so that Paradox finds the
correct PARADOX.CFG file for each user.

The following sample Paradox batch file makes these assumptions:

- The network uses the four-drive pattern of drive assignments.

- Everyone who uses it is already logged in to the network, and everyone's
  network home directory is already linked to logical drive E.

- All workstations have a local hard disk and a C:\PDOX45 directory to use as
  a private directory.

- The shared applications directory \\SYS\APPS is already linked to each
  user's logical drive D.

Give the batch file an appropriate name, such as PDOX.BAT, and store it in
the shared applications directory \\SYS\APPS.

Here is the batch file. (If your network doesn't conform to the previous
assumptions, you might need to modify it.)

PATH>E:\SAVEPATH.BAT
3F LINK F: PDOXDATA
3F LINK G: PDOX45
PATH = C:\PDOX45; G:\; D:\
PARADOX
3F UNLINK F:
3F UNLINK G:
COMMAND /C E:\SAVEPATH
DEL E:\SAVEPATH.BAT

Here are descriptions of the individual lines:

- The first line saves the user's current path for later restoration.

- The second line links the user's logical drive F to the Paradox shared data
  directory (containing PDOXUSRS.NET) via the sharename PDOXDATA. What you
  enter here must match the PDOXUSRS.NET location you entered when you
  installed Paradox.

- The third line links the user's logical drive G to the Paradox system files
  directory via the sharename PDOX45.

- The fourth line sets the correct path so that the private directory on the
  local hard disk is searched first for the correct PARADOX.CFG file. This
  example PATH statement includes D:\ so the user has access to the 3Com
  network software and network batch files.

  NOTE: If some workstations on the network don't have hard disks, their
  users must use their network home directory as their private directory
  (containing a PARADOX.CFG file). In this case, the fourth line would be

  PATH = E:\; G:\; D:\

  With this path, Paradox looks for the PARADOX.CFG file in the user's
  network home directory, E:.

- The fifth line starts Paradox.

- The sixth and seventh lines are invoked when the user exits from Paradox;
  they unlink the PDOXDATA and the PDOX45 directories, respectively.

- The eighth line restores the user's original path by running the
  SAVEPATH.BAT batch file.

- The ninth line deletes the SAVEPATH.BAT batch file.

